# Courses

_Courses_ group associated _Resources_ (student-groups, teachers, rooms) with a set of _Activities_ (primarily lessons, but they could cover all sorts of things), for which suitable time-slots must be found.

Three types of "course" are supported. The "normal" type is just called a _Course_, where the same activity is to take place at the same time every week. Some courses, however, are taught in blocks of, say, a few weeks at the same time every week. Other course blocks occupy the same weekly time-slots, but at other times in the year. This eventuality is covered by what are here called _SuperCourses_ and _SubCourses_. A _SuperCourse_ occupies regular time-slots, just like a normal _Course_, but has no directly associated _Resources_. Associated with the _SuperCourse_ are a number of _SubCourses_, which specify the _Resources_ for each of the real courses which are to take place in the time slots. To enable more elaborate course time arrangements, a _SubCourse_ can be associated with more than one _SuperCourse_.

Each _Course_ and _SuperCourse_ has a list of activity durations (the unit being a school lesson period), determining the _Activities_ associated with this course. At least in the case of a _SuperCourse_, the term _Activity_ refers to a "lesson" in the broadest sense. It is a concept relevant primarily to the construction of the timetable, an _Activity_ is an item which is to be placed in one or more (depending on its duration) consecutive timetable slots.

## When might a _SubCourse_ be associated with more than one _SuperCourse_?

A number of time-slots within the week may be set aside for teaching blocks in which multiple classes are involved. A reason might be that the teachers for the courses which are to take place in these blocks are active in more than one class. It might not be typical, but it is possible that the exact times are slightly different in the various classes. Consider a case in which the normal distribution of times is the first two lessons of each day (every day). In one class, however, the time must be different on one day. To cover this case, three _SuperCourses_ could be used, one for the days where all classes have the same times, the other two for the two times on the special day. All _SubCourses_ would be associated with the first of these _SuperCourses_ and also with one of the other two, depending on which class they are aimed at.
